I am Plato. Born in 427 in Athens, Greece.
I was a Classical Greek philosopher and
founder of the Academy of Athens, the
first university of the western world.
Along with my teacher, Socrates and my student
Aristotle, I have set the grounds for Western
philosophy and influenced the thinking of
many modern philosophers. My extant work is
in the form of epistles and dialogues, divided
according to the probable order of composition.
The Socratic dialogues, the Apology, Meno,
and Gorgias, present Socrates in conversations
that illustrate my major ideas about the unity of
virtue and knowledge and of virtue and happiness.
They also contain my moving account of
the last days and death of Socrates.My
goal in dialogues of the middle years was to
show the rational relationship between the soul,
the state, and the cosmos. The later
dialogues contain treatises on law,
mathematics, technical philosophical problems,
and natural science.I regarded the rational soul
as immortal, and I believed in a world soul and
a Demiurge, the creator of the physical world.
I argued for the independent reality of Ideas, or
Forms, as the immutable archetypes of all temporal
phenomena and as the only guarantee of ethical
standards and of objective scientific knowledge.
Virtue consists in the harmony of the human soul
with the universe of Ideas, which assure order,
intelligence, and pattern to a world in constant
flux. Supreme among them is the Idea of the Good,
analogous to the sun in the physical world.Only
the philosopher, who understands the harmony of
all parts of the universe with the Idea of the
Good, can rule the just state. In my various
dialogues I touched upon virtually every problem
that has occupied subsequent philosophers; my
teachings have been among the most influential in
the history of Western civilization, and my works
are counted among the world's finest literature.Be
kind, for everyone you meet is fighting a harder
battle. Listen to others as Every heart
sings a song, incomplete, until another
heart whispers back. I hope my studies have
enlightened the world and inspired many minds.